[coughing]
[panting]
[winces]
[ominous music]
[shuddering]
The numbness is so severe.
These needles.
I may have been able
to escape the water pot...
but my strength...
[metal clatters]
K--Kotetsu, are you...
- [murmuring]
[metal clangs]
[gasps]
My strength... is sapped.
- [wailing]
- There's nothing...
I can...
♪♪ ♪♪
- I know you can do it,
Muichiro.
Now, stand up!
- Father.
["Kizuna no Kiseki" playing]
♪♪ ♪♪
[singers vocalizing]
- [groans]
That's right.
My father was a lumberman.
And as his son,
I would help him cut down trees
whenever I could.
- [sighs]
- I remember.
- Eh?
[laughs]
I remember that I used
to love helping Father work.
[strong winds blowing]
[woman coughing]
- Hang in there, mother!
Father just went out
to get you some herbs, so...
Mother!
- [gasping]
[water splashes]
- She's burning up.
Here. Take my blanket.
That should help. Right, Mother?
- So cold...
- [gasps]
[sighs]
Hang on!
Father will be back soon,
all right?
[soft music]
[thunder crashing]
- [panting]
Ah.
[grunting]
- [ground crumbles]
- [gasps]
- That day, I lost two people
who were dear to me.
Both my mother and my father
passed away.
I was ten years old,
without any parents.
I was ten years old
and completely alone.
- Muichiro?
- Huh?
No, that's not right.
I was 11 when I
found myself alone.
Before then, I used
to have a twin brother...
an older brother,
and his name was Yuichiro.
[birds trilling]
- Kindness does no good
for anyone.
If you try to help somebody
in need, you'll only get hurt.
- That's not true.
Whatever you do
to help others
has a way of coming back around
and helping yourself someday.
That's what Father said.
- You're regurgitating
the words of a man
who got himself killed
trying to help someone else.
- How could you
say something so cold?
He died trying
to save our mother!
- As if a few herbs
would have done anything
to heal her at that point.
Don't be so stupid.
- Don't say such awful things!
- If he hadn't gone out
in the middle of a storm,
maybe we would have only
lost our mother that night.
- Please stop
saying things like that!
That's going too far!
- I'm only telling you
how it is.
And stop being so noisy.
You might attract boars.
I guess the "mu" in Muichiro
stands for "incompetence."
This conversation
is meaningless.
After all,
you can't change the past.
Or maybe the "mu" in Muichiro
stands for "meaningless."
- [gasps]
He was unsympathetic
and spoke harshly.
I feel that, in a way,
I acted like him
after I had amnesia.
Life with my brother
wasn't easy.
If anything, it was stifling.
I was sure he despised me,
and because of that,
I couldn't help but think
of him as a cold person.
I remember
the seasons changed...
and it was spring.
[birds chirping]
I'll be back.
I'm gonna fetch some water.
- You still haven't gotten any?
- [sighs]
[gasps]
[soft music]
The first time I saw her,
I couldn't believe it.
She was so beautiful...
I thought she was
a white-birch spirit.
[wind blowing]
[sword slices]
[Muichiro] It turns out
this person
was the master's wife,
who came to visit us,
which meant she traveled
all the way up the mountain.
But...
♪♪ ♪♪
[door slams]
- ...in the end,
my brother just spewed
his usual insults
and drove Lady Amane away.
- Can you believe it?
- [chopping]
She says our ancestors
were swordsmen!
Apparently we're descendants
of an amazing swordsman
who used something
called First Breathing!
- Why should I care?
Wash the rice already.
- Hey, let's become swordsmen!
It's hard to believe
demons exist
and are out there
hurting people.
If we can do something to help,
we should!
Right? So let's
become swordsmen
and save the people
who are suffering!
If we do it together--
Uh...
- What makes you think
you could ever save anybody?!
You can't cook rice on your own,
and you're gonna be a swordsman
and save others?!
Give me a break, Muichiro!
You sound
like Mother and Father,
spouting that kind of nonsense!
Stop being so optimistic!
Your mind is poisoned!
Just like Mother,
who told us she was fine
and then worked
until she collapsed!
Like Father, who got killed
trying to find some herbs!
Even after I tried to stop him!
Even after I begged Mother
to rest over and over!
The only kind of people
who can help others
are people
who were chosen to do so!
Our ancestors
may have been swordsmen,
but we are
just two hopeless orphans!
People like us are useless!
We're only good for one thing,
and that's dying in the street
like dogs!
Our parents met the same fate
to prove it!
We'll only end up
getting used by that woman!
Why do you think
she came all the way here?!
We're never talking
about this again. Got it?
Now hurry up,
and get dinner ready!
- [cries]
After that incident, we stopped
speaking to each other.
Except for the one time
we fought briefly
when my brother
hurled water at Lady Amane,
who'd traveled up the mountain
to visit us again.
[panting]
[yelps]
[cicadas buzzing]
Then summer came.
It was blisteringly hot,
so my brother and I
were always irritable.
It was a hot night.
The cicadas were singing.
[soft buzzing]
[groans]
[sighs]
Hmm?
- [sighs]
[cicadas buzzing]
[buzzing stops]
- [gasps]
[tense music]
- Ah, damn it.
Nothing but
a couple of brats, huh?
Tch! Whatever.
- Muichiro!
[dramatic music]
[screams]
- Brother! Brother!
- [moaning]
- [laughs]
- [wailing]
- [grunting]
- Shut up! Shut up!
You're too noisy.
You can cry for help,
but no one's coming
to help a couple of useless
lumbermen like yourselves.
Since it doesn't matter
whether you exist or not.
After all,
your lives are worthless!
- [whimpers]
[squelch]
- At that moment,
all I could see was red.
I went into a violent
and uncontrollable rage,
one that boiled
from the pit of my stomach.
It came to me naturally.
And while I can't remember
exactly what happened next,
I still hear that roar.
Even now...
[screaming]
...I can't believe
a sound like that
came from my throat,
from my own mouth.
[sighs]
Before I knew it,
the demon was
on the brink of death.
But apparently it couldn't die,
even with its head smashed in,
so it was suffering.
[demon gurgling]
[gags]
- Soon after,
the sun began to rise,
and the demon turned to dust
and vanished.
But I couldn't care less
about that.
[groaning]
All I wanted
was to get to Yuichiro
and tend to his wounds,
but suddenly my body felt
like it was heavier than lead.
It took me
what felt like ages
just to reach the house
right in front of me.
- I beg of you--
Please, I beg of you--
Oh, please, I...
- Brother.
You're alive? Brother!
[groans]
[grunts]
- Please, dear God, Buddha,
anyone out there
who's listening,
I beg of you...
save him.
Please save my brother.
He doesn't deserve
any of this.
- [gasps]
[crying]
- My brother isn't like me.
He's kind.
He's a kindhearted kid
through and through.
He says he wants to help others,
but I got in the way
of his dream.
It's my fault.
I'm to blame, so please...
please don't punish him.
It's my fault...
and only mine.
The truth is...
I've always known...
about his name....
The "mu" in "Muichiro"
stands for...
- [groans]
- ...it stands for "infinity."
- Mist Breathing, Fourth Form...
[demons jabber]
[sentimental music]
- Shifting Flow Slash!
- [coughs]
- Kotetsu!
- [coughs] Mr. Tokito.
Don't--
Don't worry about me.
Mr. Haganezuka, you have to...
save him and the swords!
- [grunts]
Right.
- [grumbles]
Damn swordsmith.
Damn philistine!
His focus is absurd.
It's practically inhuman!
Even after
all I've done to him,
he still won't stop
honing that damn sword!
Even when I decimated
one of his eyes,
he maintained his focus
sharpening that sword!
- [groaning]
- Ooh, I know!
What if I tell him
I'm going to kill this one?
[gasps]
He managed to escape
the Water Prison Pot!
But how is that possible?
It shouldn't be.
I was so certain
that his death was imminent,
that he was the furthest thing
from my mind.
No, wait a second.
On the other hand,
I didn't notice he escaped,
because I was so focused
on dealing with these two.
Yes!
Hmm?
Hold on, hold on, hold on.
What's with
that mark on his face?
If I recall the information
Lord Muzan gave me,
the child with the earrings
is the one who has the mark
on his face, isn't he?
No, no, no. It matters not.
How are you standing there
so nonchalantly?
The attack
I landed on you earlier
should have left your body
completely paralyzed!
And how were you able
to summon even greater speed
than our last encounter
and wound me?
Octopus Vase Hell!
[metal clangs]
- Lord Tokito! [grunts]
[wood clatters]
- Hyo, hyo!
You didn't expect
this octopus flesh
to be so springy!
Let's see you
try and slash this!
He's still honing that sword?
Is he a fool?
Surely he's not
in his right mind.
His madness is sublime!
The swordsmith can wait until
I've killed off the Hashira.
I'm sure you know this,
but I wasn't trying earlier.
But this time,
I'll give it all I've got
so I can crush and absorb you!
[sword slashes]
[gasps]
- Mr. Kanamori, you crafted
this sword for me.
Mr. Kanamori, thank you.
- N--No, it was nothing!
All I did was follow
the instructions
your first swordsmith left me!
- That's right.
It was Mr. Tetsuido
who forged my first sword
for me, wasn't it?
But he's since passed away
from heart disease.
- Hmph!
No matter how many times
you replace your sword,
it won't change a thing.
[sentimental music]
- Ah. It fits like a glove.
- I worry about you
very much, boy.
After all,
who could ever understand
what it is you're going through?
How you only have time
for battle and training?
How you're barely getting by
and have no breathing room?
How anxious
you must be all the time
because you can't seem
to remember anything?
And how you strive so hard,
you end up vomiting blood?
Who could ever understand
something like that?
Whenever I lay eyes on the
battered swords you've used,
it brings a tear to my eye.
Muichiro,
listen to me carefully.
I feel I won't be around
much longer.
But I'll still worry about you,
even in the afterlife.
- Mr. Tetsuido, I'm sorry.
I know I made you worry,
but I'm all right now.
So rest easy.
[dramatic music]
Mist Breathing, Fifth Form...
Sea of Clouds and Haze!
- Your rapid-fire chopping
had me worried,
but it seems like you're
not able to keep up
with my vase's speed after all!
- Are you sure?
- What?
- Maybe it's because you've
lived for hundreds of years,
but your senses
have grown weary.
- [winces]
- I'm going to behead you.
I've got
much more important things to do
then playing
with that silly vase of yours.
- Heh! Don't underestimate me,
you damn brat.
[grunts]
♪♪ ♪♪
- Muichiro...
sorry I couldn't be
more gentle with you.
It's just...
I could never
afford to be that way.
Being compassionate
towards others...
is one more thing
that only the chosen can do.
But remember, Muichiro...
no matter how virtuous
a life you may lead,
neither the gods nor Buddha
will be the ones
to protect you in the end.
That's why I threw myself
in front of you that day.
Muichiro, you and I
are nothing alike...
because for the sake
of someone else...
you can exert infinite strength.
♪♪ ♪♪
You are one of the chosen ones.
["Koi Kogare" playing]
♪♪ ♪♪
[page rustles]
- Oh, yeah! Happy Birthday,
Ms. Kanroji!
- [grunts]
- Let's start with your friends
from the Village!
[Kotetsu] Our gift's
an all-you-can-eat spread!
- [squeals]
All-you-can-eat
means I can have
as many helpings
as I want, right?
- Huh? You're gonna
have seconds of all this?
- Oh, my gosh! Oh, my gosh!
- Of course!
- Now it's time
for a Taisho-era secret!
Nowadays, Ms. Kanroji's
favorite foods
are pork cutlets
and omelet rice,
which are both
Western-style foods.
So as a surprise...
Nezuko and I got her some
for her birthday!
- Ahh! Thank you!
Can I eat them now?
- Of course!
- [grunts]
- Up next, Episode 9,
"Mist Hashira Muichiro Tokito."
- Seconds, please!
- Already?
- Come on! Keep 'em coming!